Monitoring guide (#2407)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/doc-Monitoring_Project/topics/proc_installing-pcp-packages.adoc

[id='installing-pcp-packages_{context}']
= Installing PCP Packages

This procedure describes how to install the PCP packages.

.Prerequisites

* Ensure you have a minimum of 20 GB space available in the `/var/log/pcp` directory.
+

> The default PCP data retention policy is to retain only that data collected during the past 14 days. Data storage per day is estimated to use usually between 100 MB and 500 MB of disk space, but may use up to several gigabytes.

Reviewer: Feels like https://github.com/theforeman/foreman-documentation/pull/2407/files#diff-5673b605286a768dc0072be5f340b04306309d7ebc3da5e4d4369ef1a96792c4 should be included here or linked.

> The default PCP data retention policy is to retain only that data collected during the past 14 days. Data storage per day is estimated to use usually between 100 MB and 500 MB of disk space, but may use up to several gigabytes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
PCP's default data retention policy is to retain data collected within the last 14 days.
Data storage per day is estimated to use usually between 100 MB and 500 MB of disk space, but it can go upto several gigabytes.
```

Reviewer 2: Tried to make it straight.

.Procedure

. Install the PCP packages:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
ifndef::foreman-deb[]
# {package-install-project} pcp \
  pcp-pmda-apache \
  pcp-pmda-openmetrics \
  pcp-pmda-postgresql \
  pcp-pmda-redis \
  pcp-system-tools
endif::[]
ifdef::foreman-deb[]
# {package-install-project} pcp
endif::[]
----

. Enable and start the Performance Metrics Collector daemon, and the Performance Metrics Logger daemon:
+
----

> # systemctl enable --now pmcd pmlogger

Reviewer: Does PCP handle services being down elegantly? In the case of a restart or an upgrade.

Reviewer: If the services it is monitoring are down, I assume it handles that gracefully?

Author: As far as I have seen, yeah.

[id='installing-pcp-packages_{context}']
= Installing PCP Packages

> This procedure describes how to install the PCP packages.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use this procedure to install the PCP packages on your {ProjectServer}.
```

.Prerequisites

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

* Ensure you have a minimum of 20 GB space available in the `/var/log/pcp` directory.
+
PCP's default data retention policy is to retain data collected within the last 14 days.
Data storage per day is estimated to use usually between 100 MB and 500 MB of disk space, but may use up to several gigabytes.
For more information, see xref:changing-data-retention-policy_{context}[]

.Procedure

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

. Install the PCP packages:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="verbatim,quotes,attributes"]
----
ifndef::foreman-deb[]
# {package-install-project} pcp \
  pcp-pmda-apache \
  pcp-pmda-openmetrics \
  pcp-pmda-postgresql \
  pcp-pmda-redis \
  pcp-system-tools
endif::[]
ifdef::foreman-deb[]
# {package-install-project} pcp
endif::[]
----

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
